add tutorial for conversational search (#2075)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/tutorials/agent_framework/RAG_with_conversational_flow_agent.md

# Topic

> > Agent Framework is an experimental feature released in OpenSearch 2.12 and not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/issues/1161).

Author: OpenSearch 2.12 not released yet. If you want to try this feature now, you can test with the latest RC https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-build/issues/4115#issuecomment-1939453371

OpenSearch data as knowledge base.

Note: You should replace the placeholders with prefix `your_` with your own value

# Steps

## 0. Preparation

To build RAG application, we need to have some OpenSearch index as knowledge base. In this tutorial, we
are going to use [k-NN index](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/) and 
[semantic search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/semantic-search/). You can read more 
details on their document and this [tutorial](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/neural-search-tutorial/).
It's totally fine to just follow below steps to quick start.

### update cluster setting

If you have dedicated ML node, you don't need to set `"plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": false`.

We set `"plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold"` as 100% to avoid triggering native memory circuit breaker.
```
PUT _cluster/settings
{
    "persistent": {
        "plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": false,
        "plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold": 100,
        "plugins.ml_commons.agent_framework_enabled": true,

>         "plugins.ml_commons.memory_feature_enabled": true

Reviewer: isn't this enabled by default now?

Reviewer: (`memory_feature_enabled` - didn't mean to highlight _all_ that)

Author: Checkd code, it's still disabled, @Zhangxunmt can you enable these once all security issues fixed ? We can remove this part later when it's enabled by default.

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "huggingface/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L12-v2",
  "version": "1.0.1",
  "model_format": "TORCH_SCRIPT"
}
```
Find model id by calling get task API.

Copy the text embedding model id, will use it in following steps.
```
GET /_plugins/_ml/tasks/your_task_id
```
2. Deploy model
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_text_embedding_model_id/_deploy
```
3. Test predict
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_text_embedding_model_id/_predict
{
  "text_docs":[ "today is sunny"],
  "return_number": true,
  "target_response": ["sentence_embedding"]
}
```

### 1.2 create ingest pipeline and k-NN index

1. Create ingest pipeline 

Create pipeline with text embedding processor which can invoke model created in step1.1 to translate text
field to embedding.

```
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/test_population_data_pipeline
{
    "description": "text embedding pipeline",
    "processors": [
        {
            "text_embedding": {
                "model_id": "your_text_embedding_model_id",
                "field_map": {
                    "population_description": "population_description_embedding"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> 2. create k-NN index with the ingest pipeline.

Author: done

# Topic

> Agent Framework is an experimental feature released in OpenSearch 2.12 and not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/issues/1161).

> > This tutorial doesn't explain what's retrieval-augmented generation(RAG).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This tutorial doesn't explain what retrieval-augmented generation(RAG) is.
```

> This tutorial explains how to use conversational flow agent to build RAG application by leveraging your 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial explains how to use a conversational flow agent to build  a RAG application by using your 
```

OpenSearch data as knowledge base.

Note: You should replace the placeholders with prefix `your_` with your own value

# Steps

## 0. Preparation

> To build RAG application, we need to have some OpenSearch index as knowledge base. In this tutorial, we

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To build a RAG application, you need to have an OpenSearch index as knowledge base. In this tutorial, you
```

> are going to use [k-NN index](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/) and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are going to use a [k-NN index](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/) and 
```

> [semantic search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/semantic-search/). You can read more 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[semantic search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/semantic-search/). For 
```

> details on their document and this [tutorial](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/neural-search-tutorial/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
more information, see this [tutorial](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/neural-search-tutorial/).
```

> It's totally fine to just follow below steps to quick start.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a quick start, follow the steps below.
```

> ### update cluster setting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Update cluster settings
```

> If you have dedicated ML node, you don't need to set `"plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a dedicated ML node, you don't need to set `"plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": false`.
```

> We set `"plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold"` as 100% to avoid triggering native memory circuit breaker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid triggering a native memory circuit breaker, set `"plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold"` to 100%:
```

```
PUT _cluster/settings
{
    "persistent": {
        "plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": false,
        "plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold": 100,
        "plugins.ml_commons.agent_framework_enabled": true,
        "plugins.ml_commons.memory_feature_enabled": true
    }
}
```

## 1. Prepare knowledge base

> ### 1.1 register text embedding model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.1 Register text embedding model
```

> Find more details: [pretrained model](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/pretrained-models/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Pretrained models](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/pretrained-models/)
```

1. Upload model:
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "huggingface/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L12-v2",
  "version": "1.0.1",
  "model_format": "TORCH_SCRIPT"
}
```

> Find model id by calling get task API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get the model ID by calling the Get Task API.
```

> Copy the text embedding model id, will use it in following steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the text embedding model ID; you will use it in the following steps.
```

```
GET /_plugins/_ml/tasks/your_task_id
```

> 2. Deploy model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Deploy model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_text_embedding_model_id/_deploy
```

> 3. Test predict

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Test model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_text_embedding_model_id/_predict
{
  "text_docs":[ "today is sunny"],
  "return_number": true,
  "target_response": ["sentence_embedding"]
}
```

> ### 1.2 create ingest pipeline and k-NN index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.2 Create ingest pipeline and k-NN index
```

1. Create ingest pipeline 

> Find more details: [ingest pipline](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ingest-pipelines/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Ingest piplines](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ingest-pipelines/)
```

> Create pipeline with text embedding processor which can invoke model created in step1.1 to translate text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a pipeline with a text embedding processor, which can invoke the model created in Step 1.1 to translate text
```

> field to embedding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fields to embeddings:
```

```
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/test_population_data_pipeline
{
    "description": "text embedding pipeline",
    "processors": [
        {
            "text_embedding": {
                "model_id": "your_text_embedding_model_id",
                "field_map": {
                    "population_description": "population_description_embedding"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

2. create k-NN index with the ingest pipeline.

> Find more details: [k-NN index](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [k-NN index](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/).
```

```
PUT test_population_data
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "population_description": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "population_description_embedding": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 384
      }
    }
  },
  "settings": {
    "index": {
      "knn.space_type": "cosinesimil",
      "default_pipeline": "test_population_data_pipeline",
      "knn": "true"
    }
  }
}
```

> 3. Ingest test data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Ingest test data:
```

{"index": {"_index": "test_population_data"}}
{"population_description": "Chart and table of population level and growth rate for the Seattle metro area from 1950 to 2023. United Nations population projections are also included through the year 2035.\\nThe current metro area population of Seattle in 2023 is 3,519,000, a 0.86% increase from 2022.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2022 was 3,489,000, a 0.81% increase from 2021.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2021 was 3,461,000, a 0.82% increase from 2020.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2020 was 3,433,000, a 0.79% increase from 2019."}

```

## 2. Prepare LLM

> Find more details: [Remote model](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/index/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Remote models](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/index/).
```

> We use [Bedrock Claude model](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/claude/) in this tutorial. You can also use other LLM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses the [Bedrock Claude model](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/claude/). You can also use other LLMs.
```

> 1. Create connector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create connector:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "BedRock Claude instant-v1 Connector ",
  "description": "The connector to BedRock service for claude model",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "parameters": {
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "service_name": "bedrock",
    "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31",
    "max_tokens_to_sample": 8000,
    "temperature": 0.0001,
    "response_filter": "$.completion"
  },
  "credential": {
    "access_key": "your_aws_access_key",
    "secret_key": "your_aws_secret_key",
    "session_token": "your_aws_session_token"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/model/anthropic.claude-instant-v1/invoke",
      "headers": {
        "content-type": "application/json",
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required"
      },
      "request_body": "{\"prompt\":\"${parameters.prompt}\", \"max_tokens_to_sample\":${parameters.max_tokens_to_sample}, \"temperature\":${parameters.temperature},  \"anthropic_version\":\"${parameters.anthropic_version}\" }"
    }
  ]
}
```

> Copy the connector id from the response. 

Reviewer 3: Copy the connector id from the response to use in the register model step.

> Copy the connector id from the response. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the connector ID ; you'll use it to register the model.
```

> 2. register model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Register model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
    "name": "Bedrock Claude Instant model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "Bedrock Claude instant-v1 model",
    "connector_id": "your_LLM_connector_id"
}
```
Copy the LLM model id from the response, will use it in following steps.

3. Deploy model
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_LLM_model_id/_deploy
```

4. Test predict
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_LLM_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "prompt": "\n\nHuman: how are you? \n\nAssistant:"
  }
}
```

## 3. Create Agent
Agent framework provides several agent types: `flow`, `conversational_flow` and `conversational`.

> We will use `conversational_flow` agent in this tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will use `conversational_flow` agent in this tutorial.
```

The agent consists of:
1. meta info: `name`, `type`, `description`

> 2. `app_type`: this is to differentiate different application type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `app_type`: To differentiate different application types
```

> 3. `memory`: this is to store agent execution result, so user can retrieve memory later and continue one conversation.

Reviewer 3: this is to store the user's conversations including the user's questions and the LLM's results. So an agent can retrieve chat history of conversation from the memory to use for the interactions with LLM.

Author: done with Fanit's comment

> 3. `memory`: this is to store agent execution result, so user can retrieve memory later and continue one conversation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. `memory`: To store user questions and LLM responses as a conversation so an agent can retrieve conversation history from memory and continue the same conversation.
```

> 4. `tools`: define a list of tools to use. Agent will run tools sequentially.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. `tools`: Define a list of tools to use. The agent will run these tools sequentially.
```

    "tools": [
        {
            "type": "VectorDBTool",
            "name": "population_knowledge_base",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_text_embedding_model_id",
                "index": "test_population_data",
                "embedding_field": "population_description_embedding",
                "source_field": [
                    "population_description"
                ],
                "input": "${parameters.question}"
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "MLModelTool",
            "name": "bedrock_claude_model",
            "description": "A general tool to answer any question",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_LLM_model_id",
                "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional data analysist. You will always answer question based on the given context first. If the answer is not directly shown in the context, you will analyze the data and find the answer. If you don't know the answer, just say don't know. \n\nContext:\n${parameters.population_knowledge_base.output:-}\n\n${parameters.chat_history:-}\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nAssistant:"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> Sample response

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sample response:
```

```
{
  "agent_id": "fQ75lI0BHcHmo_czdqcJ"
}
```

> Copy the agent id, will use it in next step. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the agent ID; you will use it in the next step. 
```

## 4. Execute Agent

### 4.1 Start a new conversation

> Run the agent to analyze Seattle population increase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the agent to analyze the Seattle population increase.
```

> When run this agent, it will create a new conversation. 

Reviewer 3: When running this agent,

> When run this agent, it will create a new conversation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you run this agent, the agent will create a new conversation. 
```

> Later you can continue the conversation by asking other questions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Later, you can continue this conversation by asking other questions.
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "what's the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023?"
  }
}
```

> Sample response

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sample response:
```

```
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "memory_id",
          "result": "gQ75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acL" 
        },
        {
          "name": "parent_message_id",
          "result": "gg75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acZ"
        },
        {
          "name": "bedrock_claude_model",
          "result": """ Based on the context given:
- The metro area population of Seattle in 2021 was 3,461,000
- The current metro area population of Seattle in 2023 is 3,519,000
- So the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023 is 3,519,000 - 3,461,000 = 58,000"""
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```
Explanation of the output:

> 1. `memory_id` means the conversation id, copy it as we will use in Step4.2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `memory_id` is the conversation ID. Note this ID; you will use it in Step 4.2.
```

> 2. `parent_message_id` means the current interaction (one round of question/answer), one conversation can have multiple interactions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `parent_message_id` is the current interaction (one round of question/answer). One conversation can have multiple interactions.
```

> Check more details of conversation by calling get memory API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get the details of the conversation, call the Get Memory API:
```

```
GET /_plugins/_ml/memory/gQ75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acL

GET /_plugins/_ml/memory/gQ75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acL/messages
```

> Check more details of interaction by calling get message API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get the details of an interaction, call the Get Message API:
```

```
GET /_plugins/_ml/memory/message/gg75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acZ
```

> For debugging purpose, each interaction/message has its own trace data, you can find trace data by calling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For debugging purposes, each interaction and message has its own trace data. To get trace data, call the Get Traces API:
```

```
GET /_plugins/_ml/memory/message/gg75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acZ/traces
```

> ### 4.2 Continue a conversation by asking new question

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 4.2 Continue a conversation by asking new questions
```

> Continue last conversation by providing memory id from step4.1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To continue the same conversation, provide its memory ID from step 4.1.
```

Explanation of the input:

> 1. `message_history_limit`: specify how many historical messages included in this interaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `message_history_limit`: Specify how many historical messages you want included in this interaction.
```

> 2. `prompt`: use can customize prompt. For example, this example adds a new instruction `always learn useful information from chat history` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `prompt`: Used to customize the LLM prompt. For example, this example adds a new instruction `always learn useful information from chat history` 
```

and a new parameter `next_action`.

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "What's the population of New York City in 2023?",
    "next_action": "then compare with Seattle population of 2023",
    "memory_id": "gQ75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acL",
    "message_history_limit": 5,
    "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional data analysist. You will always answer question based on the given context first. If the answer is not directly shown in the context, you will analyze the data and find the answer. If you don't know the answer, just say don't know. \n\nContext:\n${parameters.population_knowledge_base.output:-}\n\n${parameters.chat_history:-}\n\nHuman:always learn useful information from chat history\nHuman:${parameters.question}, ${parameters.next_action}\n\nAssistant:"
  }
}
```

> Sample response

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sample response:
```

```
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "memory_id",
          "result": "gQ75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acL"
        },
        {
          "name": "parent_message_id",
          "result": "wQ4JlY0BHcHmo_cz8Kc-"
        },
        {
          "name": "bedrock_claude_model",
          "result": """ Based on the context given:
- The current metro area population of New York City in 2023 is 18,937,000
- The current metro area population of Seattle in 2023 is 3,519,000
- So the population of New York City in 2023 (18,937,000) is much higher than the population of Seattle in 2023 (3,519,000)"""
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> You can also customize which tool to use in predict API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also customize which tool to use in  the Predict API.
```

> For example, if you want to translate last answer into Chinese, you don't need to retrieve data from knowledge base.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to translate the previous answer into Chinese, you don't need to retrieve data from knowledge base.
```

> Then you can use `selected_tools` to specify just run `bedrock_claude_model`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `selected_tools` to just run `the bedrock_claude_model`.
```

> Note: Agent will run tools sequentially with the new order defined in `selected_tools`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: The agent will run the tools sequentially in the new order defined in `selected_tools`. 
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "Translate last answer into Chinese?",
    "selected_tools": ["bedrock_claude_model"]
  }
}
```

## 5. Advanced Topics
### 5.1 Configure multiple knowledge bases

> You can configure multiple knowledge bases in agent. For example, if you have product description and comments data,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure multiple knowledge bases in an agent. For example, if you have product description and comments data,
```

> you can configure like this 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can configure the agent as follows: 
```

            }
        },
        {
            "type": "VectorDBTool",
            "name": "product_comments_vectordb",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_embedding_model_id",
                "index": "product_comments_data",
                "embedding_field": "product_comment_embedding",
                "source_field": [
                    "product_comment"
                ],
                "input": "${parameters.question}"
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "MLModelTool",
            "description": "A general tool to answer any question",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "{{llm_model_id}}",
                "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional product recommendation engine. You will always recommend product based on the given context. If you don't have enough context, you will ask Human to provide more information. If you don't see any related product to recommend, just say we don't have such product. \n\n Context:\n${parameters.product_description_vectordb.output}\n\n${parameters.product_comments_vectordb.output}\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nAssistant:"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> When you run agent, it will query product description and comments data, then send query result and question to LLM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you run the agent, it will query product description and comments data and then send query results and the question to the LLM.
```

> You can use `selected_tools` to query specific knowledge base.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To query a specific knowledge base, specify it in `selected_tools`.
```

> For example, you can just retrieve `product_comments_vectordb` if the question only related to product comments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can retrieve only `product_comments_vectordb` if the question only relates to product comments:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "What feature people like the most for Amazon Echo Dot",
    "selected_tools": ["product_comments_vectordb", "MLModelTool"]
  }
}
```

### 5.2 Support any search query

> You can use `SearchIndexTool` to run arbitrary query on any index.

Reviewer 3: arbitrary OpenSearch query

> You can use `SearchIndexTool` to run arbitrary query on any index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `SearchIndexTool` to run any OpenSearch query on any index.
```

{
    "parameters": {
        "question": "what's the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023??",
        "index": "test_population_data",
        "query": {
            "query": {
                "match": {
                    "population_description": "${parameters.question}"
                }
            },
            "size": 2,
            "_source": "population_description"
        }
    }
}
```

#### 5.2.3 Execute agent with neural search query

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
    "parameters": {
        "question": "what's the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023??",
        "index": "test_population_data",
        "query": {
            "query": {
                "neural": {
                    "population_description_embedding": {
                        "query_text": "${parameters.question}",
                        "model_id": "your_embedding_model_id",
                        "k": 10
                    }
                }
            },
            "size": 2,
            "_source": ["population_description"]
        }
    }
}
```

#### 5.2.4 Execute agent with hybrid search query

> Find more details: [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search),
```

> Configure search pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure search pipeline:
```

```
PUT /_search/pipeline/nlp-search-pipeline
{
    "description": "Post processor for hybrid search",
    "phase_results_processors": [
      {
        "normalization-processor": {
          "normalization": {
            "technique": "min_max"
          },
          "combination": {
            "technique": "arithmetic_mean",
            "parameters": {
              "weights": [
                0.3,
                0.7
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
```

> Run agent with hybrid search

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run agent with hybrid search:
```

{
    "parameters": {
        "question": "what's the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023??",
        "index": "test_population_data",
        "query": {
            "_source": {
                "exclude": [
                    "population_description_embedding"
                ]
            },
            "size": 2,
            "query": {
                "hybrid": {
                    "queries": [
                        {
                            "match": {
                                "population_description": {
                                    "query": "${parameters.question}"
                                }
                            }
                        },
                        {
                            "neural": {
                                "population_description_embedding": {
                                    "query_text": "${parameters.question}",
                                    "model_id": "your_embedding_model_id",
                                    "k": 10
                                }
                            }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> ### 5.3 Support natural language query (NLQ)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 5.3 Natural language query (NLQ)
```

> `PPLTool` can translate natural language to [PPL](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/sql/ppl/index/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `PPLTool` can translate natural language to [PPL](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/sql/ppl/index/)
```

and execute the generated PPL query.

#### 5.3.1 Register agent with PPLTool

PPLTool parameters:

> - `model_type`: enum type, support `CLAUDE`, `OPENAI` and `FINETUNE`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `model_type` (Enum): `CLAUDE`, `OPENAI`, or `FINETUNE`.
```

> - `execute`: boolean type, if set as `true`, it will execute the generated PPL query

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `execute` (Boolean): If `true`, executes the generated PPL query.
```

> - `input`: string type, must provide `index` and `question`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `input` (String): You must provide the `index` and `question`.
```

> In this tutorial, we are using Bedrock Claude, so we set `model_type` as `CLAUDE`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll use Bedrock Claude, so set `model_type` to `CLAUDE`:
```

{
    "name": "Demo agent for NLQ",
    "type": "conversational_flow",
    "description": "This is a test flow agent for NLQ",
    "memory": {
        "type": "conversation_index"
    },
    "app_type": "rag",
    "tools": [
        {
            "type": "PPLTool",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_ppl_model_id",
                "model_type": "CLAUDE",
                "execute": true,
                "input": "{\"index\": \"${parameters.index}\", \"question\": ${parameters.question} }"
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "MLModelTool",
            "description": "A general tool to answer any question",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_llm_model_id",
                "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional data analysist. You will always answer question based on the given context first. If the answer is not directly shown in the context, you will analyze the data and find the answer. If you don't know the answer, just say don't know. \n\n Context:\n${parameters.PPLTool.output:-}\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nAssistant:"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
#### 5.3.2 Execute agent with NLQ

> 1. Go to home page of OpenSearch Dashboard, click "Add sample data", then add "Sample eCommerce orders".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to OpenSearch Dashboards home page, select "Add sample data", then add "Sample eCommerce orders".
```

> 2. Run agent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run agent:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
    "parameters": {
        "question": "How many orders do I have in last week",
        "index": "opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_ecommerce"
    }
}
```

> Sample response

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sample response:
```

```
{
    "inference_results": [
        {
            "output": [
                {
                    "name": "memory_id",
                    "result": "sqIioI0BJhBwrVXYeYOM"
                },
                {
                    "name": "parent_message_id",
                    "result": "s6IioI0BJhBwrVXYeYOW"
                },
                {
                    "name": "MLModelTool",
                    "result": " Based on the given context, the number of orders in the last week is 3992. The data shows a query that counts the number of orders where the order date is greater than 1 week ago. The query result shows the count as 3992."
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

> Check trace data for more details

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details, get trace data:
```
